hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions start with the
square pick a point in the interior the
distance to the upper-left corner is the
square root of 17 to the lower left
corner is 2 and to the lower right
corner is 5 solve for the area of the
square this problem is adapted from a
Southeast Asian mathematical Olympiad
test where students had about 5 minutes
per question pause the video if you'd
like to give it a try and when you're
ready keep watching to learn how to
solve this problem
[Music]
we'll get started by color-coding the
distances to each corner this problem
can be solved with an interesting
technique we'll rotate the entire
diagram from the lower left corner 90
degrees now we'll consider the angles in
this diagram consider this purple angle
once it's rotated it'll end up right
here since the corner of a square is a
right angle when we rotate this diagram
this will also become a right angle
consequently these two yellow lines are
the legs of an isosceles right triangle
these angles will be equal to 45 degrees
and its hypotenuse will be two times the
square root of two now focus on this
triangle notice that the square of two
times the square root of two plus the
square of the square root of 17 is
exactly equal to five squared
this is because eight plus 17 is equal
to 25 that means this is a right angle
triangle and this is a right angle
now let's erase all the parts on the
Left let's focus just on the right right
here we have an angle that's 45 degrees
plus 90 degrees and that's equal to 135
degrees let's write X for the side of
the square by al-qasas law of cosines x
squared is equal to the square root of
17 squared plus 2 squared minus 2 times
the square root of 17 times 2 times the
cosine of 135 degrees we'll simplify
each term and we can gradually solve for
x squared 17 plus 4 is equal to 21 and
this entire thing will be subtracting a
negative and it ends up being plus 2
times the square root of 34 so x squared
is equal to 21 plus 2 times the square
root of 34 now recall we want the area
of the square and the area of the square
is exactly its side length squared
which is equal to x squared and we've
already solved for that so that's our
answer the area of the square is 21 plus
2 times the square root of 34 incredible
thanks for watching and for making my
year decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube thanks for watching and
thanks for your support
[Music]